The VA-NAGE Master Agreement Curriculum will provide you with
a foundational understanding, but it won't make you an expert!
The Chief Negotiators tried to construct language with
procedures so that it is easier to follow and avoid grievances.
If the language is clear, you should find it easier to avoid
creating your own intent when reading the Master Agreement.
However, even after doing your best to figure it out,
you may find yourself needing help when you are in the field.
Especially for those articles that require challenging legal
analysis or have numerous other hierarchy items that you should
read in conjunction with an article.
If you feel that the language of an article is unclear and you
cannot understand it, or if your attempts with the other Party to
resolve differences at the lowest possible level and
acceptable solutions have failed.
Then the best course of action is to speak with those who've
negotiated the Master Agreement rather than an individual who is
not at the bargaining table to come up with his or her
subjective attempt at the language.